# [Xi Jinping Thought](https://stratechery.com/2020/xi-jinping-thought-facebooks-blindspot-the-moat-map-revisited/)


First, in [China, Leverage, and Values](https://stratechery.com/2019/china-leverage-and-values/), I highlighted that China’s vision of the role of technology was fundamentally different than the West’s; in the [China Cultural Clash](https://stratechery.com/2019/the-china-cultural-clash/), I warned that China wasn’t simply interested in being different, but in exporting those differences to the West. And finally, yesterday’s [The TikTok War](https://stratechery.com/2020/the-tiktok-war/) is very much a call to action on the part of the West, rooted above all in a recognition that this isn’t simply an economic battle, but an ideological one.

There is one other point that is important to make: it is absolutely a valid distinction that Facebook is a U.S. company and TikTok is a Chinese one. To put in the plainest possible terms, Chinese social networks censor criticism of Chairman Xi, while U.S. social networks are boycotted for declining to censor President Trump; you can go to prison for mocking Xi, and you can rocket to stardom by mocking Trump — on TikTok, no less! Make no mistake, the U.S. is deeply flawed, but the differences in government control of information and ideas are real and stark, and it is dangerously cynical to suggest otherwise.


via [Engineers of the Soul: Ideology in Xi Jinping's China](https://sinocism.com/p/engineers-of-the-soul-ideology-in)
> The key point about Communist Party ideology — the unbroken thread that runs from Lenin through Stalin, Mao and Xi — is that the party is and always has defined itself as being in perpetual struggle with the “hostile” forces of Western liberalism…
\- John Garnaut

> ...he \[Xi\] has been bending the Internet from an instrument of democratization into a tool of omniscient control.
\- John Garnaut



## More from [China, Leverage, and Values](https://stratechery.com/2019/china-leverage-and-values/)

via [The Tech Cold War Has Begun](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2019-05-20/huawei-supply-freeze-points-to-u-s-china-tech-cold-war)

> The prospect that the U.S. government would cut off the supply of components to Huawei was precisely what management had been anticipating for close to a year, Bloomberg News reported Friday. Huawei has at least three months of supplies stockpiled. That’s not a lot, but it speaks to the seriousness with which the Shenzhen-based company took the threat. \-Tim Culpan

> Even the briefest of bans will be proof to them that China can no long rely on outsiders. We can now expect China to redouble efforts to roll out a homegrown smartphone operating system, design its own chips, develop its own semiconductor technology (including design tools and manufacturing equipment), and implement its own technology standards. **This can only accelerate the process of creating a digital iron curtain that separates the world into two distinct, mutually exclusive technological spheres.** \-Tim Culpan


### US Advantage
While tech devices like iPhones are “Made in China”, it is important to note that little of the technology originates there — less than $10 worth, in fact.

The reality is that China is still relatively far behind when it comes to the manufacture of most advanced components, and very far behind when it comes to both advanced processing chips and also the equipment that goes into designing and fabricating them.

### Chinese Advantage
At the same time, cutting off Chinese customers like Huawei will cost U.S. suppliers dearly: high-value components by definition entail very large research and development costs and significant capital outlays for their manufacture; that means that profit comes from volume, and losing a massive customer like Huawei would be costly.

China has one other card to play: rare earth elements. These 17 elements are essential for electronic components, and China dominates their production, accounting for over 90% of the world’s supply.

### China shot first
January of that year Google announced that its network had been hacked by China... Soon after Google closed down its China operations and directed users to its Hong Kong site, which was summarily blocked by the Great Firewall.

YouTube, Twitter, and Facebook were all blocked in 2009... Instagram, Dropbox, Pinterest, Reddit, and Discord have been as well... For over a decade U.S. services companies have been unilaterally shut out of the China market, even as Chinese alternatives had full reign, running on servers built with U.S. components (and likely using U.S. intellectual property).

### China Protects China
what mattered most to the country’s ruling Communist Party was control of the flow of information. At the same time, from a narrow economic perspective, the truth is that China has been limiting the economic upside of U.S. companies far longer than the U.S. has tried to limit China’s.

The truth is that the U.S. China relationship has been extremely one-sided for a very long time now: China buys the hardware it needs, and keeps all of the software opportunities for itself.


### Battle for Leverage
...the U.S. has the **most leverage** it ever will have: the U.S. advantage in advanced components, particularly processors and their fabrication, is massive, and will only grow if the U.S. is able to gain the support of countries like South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan.

The **primary potential pain points** for the U.S., meanwhile, are those same component manufacturers that China needs... first, the company’s massive manufacturing facilities in China, and second, the importance of the Chinese consumer market to the iPhone in particular.


*for all of the praise that is heaped on Chinese service companies like Tencent for their innovation, the fact that everything on Tencent is monitored and censored is chilling, particularly when people disappear. The possibilities of a central government creating the conditions for, say, self-driving cars or some other top-down application of technology is appealing, but [turning a city into a prison through surveillance is terrifying](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/04/04/world/asia/xinjiang-china-surveillance-prison.html). And while it is tempting to fantasize about removing “fake news” and hateful content with an iron fist, it is a step down the road to removing everything that is objectionable to an unaccountable authority with little more than an adjustment to a configuration file.*

This is the true war when it comes to technology:
- censorship versus openness
- control versus creativity
- centralization versus competition
